[homekit] Add additional troubleshooting steps for homekit (#14046)
openhab/openhab-addons: bundles/org.openhab.io.homekit/README.md

  - if sf is equal 1, openHAB is accepting pairing from new iOS device. 
  - if sf is equal 0 (as on screenshot), openHAB is already paired and does not accept any new pairing request. you can reset pairing using `openhab:homekit clearPairings` command in karaf console.
- if you see openHAB bridge and sf is equal 1 but you dont see openHAB in home app, probably you home app still think it is already paired with openHAB. remove your home from home app and restart iOS device.

> ### Re-adding the OpenHAB HomeKit bridge reports that a bridge is already added, even though it has clearly been removed.

Reviewer: s/OpenHAB/openHAB/

There are various reasons this may happen. Try the following:

> * In [openhab-cli](https://www.openhab.org/docs/administration/console.html), run `openhab:homekit clearPairing`. Reboot openHAB. Reboot your iOS device. Try again.

Reviewer: There should be no need (anymore) to reboot either device. https://github.com/openhab/openhab-addons/pull/14016 also fixes an issue where the bridge wasn't going back into discovery mode after unpairing.

Author: That fix should land in 3.4.1, right?

* In the Homekit settings, change the port, setupId, and pin. Save the settings, then re-open the settings so as to refresh the QR code. Re-add the device.

> * Remove Homekit state in `/var/lib/openhab/jsondb/homekit.json`, and homekit config in `/var/lib/openhab/config/org/openhab/homekit.config`. Restart openHAB. Reboot iPhone. Try again.

Reviewer: I don't think we should be recommending to do either of these steps. After https://github.com/openhab/openhab-addons/pull/14016, I was able to rapid fire pair, depair-on-iOS, clearPairings, and re-pair multiple times in a row with no issues. The important thing is that clearPairings will be absolutely necessary if you have multiple users accessing your Home. iOS will quickly add the additional users shortly after pairing, but only remove the user requesting to remove the bridge when un-pairing, so you have to clear out the other users.

I'd rather focus our time on figuring out how we can get "Clear Pairings" (and "Prune Dummy Accessories") as a button in the config, similar to "Heal ZWave Network" or whatever it is is a button on the thing config for a Zwave network.

Author: I ran in to issues with 3.4.0 where clearPairings was insufficient, and these were effectively the steps I followed.

It would be great to get clearPairings working properly.

Maybe we keep these steps but try and make it so the first step is sufficient?

### A stale Homekit device will not go away after deleting the related item.

> You probably have `useDummyAccessories` enabled in the OpenHAB Homekit settings. See the "Use Dummy Accessories" section in the help, above.

Reviewer: s/OpenHAB/openHAB/

Can you make this a link please?

### I added an accessory as the wrong type in Home, and updating the item configuration does not cause the change to reflect in the Home app

Homekit remembers certain configurations about an accessory, from its name to its fundamental type (i.e. fan, light or
switch?). If you added it incorrectly, simply updating the item type will not cause Home to update the type. To resolve:

> 1) If using text configuration: Comment out the item temporarily. If in the GUI, you'll need to delete the item.

Reviewer: No, you don't need to delete the item for MainUI, you just need to completely remove the HomeKit metadata.

Author: Can they just edit the homekit tag and call it xHomekit?

Author: (answered my own question)

2) If you have `useDummyAccessories` enabled, open the
[openhab-cli](https://www.openhab.org/docs/administration/console.html). Run `openhab:homekit listDummyAccessories` and
confirm your item is in the list. Once you've confirmed, clear it with `openhab:homekit clearDummyAccessories`.

> 3) Close your Home app on your iOS device. Re-open it, and confirm that the accessory is gone.

Reviewer: Do you mean kill? Just going to springboard and then re-opening Home doesn't really do anything. You need to kill it (by swiping up on the app switcher). And maybe change the language here to "You may need to kill your Home app". I just went through this process, and the accessory disappeared from Home when I pruned it, but wouldn't show back up until I killed the app.  I think it just depends on reliable Home is feeling like being at the moment.

Author: The Home app does a state refresh when it loses focus and then regains it. But, perhaps we should recommend kill to be safe.

  - if sf is equal 1, openHAB is accepting pairing from new iOS device. 
  - if sf is equal 0 (as on screenshot), openHAB is already paired and does not accept any new pairing request. you can reset pairing using `openhab:homekit clearPairings` command in karaf console.
- if you see openHAB bridge and sf is equal 1 but you dont see openHAB in home app, probably you home app still think it is already paired with openHAB. remove your home from home app and restart iOS device.

### Re-adding the openHAB HomeKit bridge reports that a bridge is already added, even though it has clearly been removed.

There are various reasons this may happen.
Try the following:

* In [openhab-cli](https://www.openhab.org/docs/administration/console.html), run `openhab:homekit clearPairings`.
Try again.
* In the HomeKit settings, change the port, setupId, and pin.
Save the settings, then re-open the settings so as to refresh the QR code.
Re-add the device.

> * Remove HomeKit state in `/var/lib/openhab/jsondb/homekit.json`, and homekit config in `/var/lib/openhab/config/org/openhab/homekit.config`.

Author: ```suggestion
* Remove HomeKit state in `${OPENHAB_USERDATA}/jsondb/homekit.json`, and HomeKit config in `${OPENHAB_USERDATA}/config/org/openhab/homekit.config`.
```

  - if sf is equal 1, openHAB is accepting pairing from new iOS device. 
  - if sf is equal 0 (as on screenshot), openHAB is already paired and does not accept any new pairing request. you can reset pairing using `openhab:homekit clearPairings` command in karaf console.
- if you see openHAB bridge and sf is equal 1 but you dont see openHAB in home app, probably you home app still think it is already paired with openHAB. remove your home from home app and restart iOS device.

### Re-adding the openHAB HomeKit bridge reports that a bridge is already added, even though it has clearly been removed.

There are various reasons this may happen.
Try the following:

* In [openhab-cli](https://www.openhab.org/docs/administration/console.html), run `openhab:homekit clearPairings`.

> On openHAB 3.4.0 and earlier, reboot openHAB.

Reviewer: I'm not sure of the policy on referring to earlier openHAB versions in current docs. Are you wanting this cherry-picked to the 3.4 branch? @openhab/add-ons-maintainers

Author: I'll just remove it for now.

Try again.
* In the Homekit settings, change the port, setupId, and pin.
Save the settings, then re-open the settings so as to refresh the QR code.
Re-add the device.
* Remove Homekit state in `/var/lib/openhab/jsondb/homekit.json`, and homekit config in `/var/lib/openhab/config/org/openhab/homekit.config`.
Restart openHAB.
Reboot iPhone.
Try again.

> ### A stale Homekit device will not go away after deleting the related item.

Reviewer: s/device/accessory/

Author: ```suggestion
### A stale Homekit accessory will not go away after deleting the related item.
```

> You probably have `useDummyAccessories` enabled in the openHAB Homekit settings.

Reviewer: s/Homekit/HomeKit/g (there are others)

See the [Dummy Accessories](#dummy-accessories) section in the help, above.

### I added an accessory as the wrong type in Home, and updating the item configuration does not cause the change to reflect in the Home app

Homekit remembers certain configurations about an accessory, from its name to its fundamental type (i.e. fan, light or
switch?).
If you added it incorrectly, simply updating the item type will not cause Home to update the type.
To resolve:

> 1) If using text configuration: Comment out the all HomeKit metadata for an accessory.

Reviewer: "the all"?
